1. Introduction to Algorithms by Thomas H. Cormen: 
This book is the Bible of Competitive Coding, beautifully written, a comprehensive textbook that covers all the modern algorithms in-depth. It is a fully organized and definitive introductory book on the design and analysis of algorithms accessible to all levels of readers. Most books on algorithms available in the market are either rigorous and incomplete or cover huge material without rigour but this book is a rare example that uniquely combines both rigour and comprehensiveness. The first half of this book gives an effective method to study algorithms and the second half is focused on more advanced readers and curious students with compelling material on both the possibilities and the challenges in this fascinating field.

Every chapter is well organized and best for self-study.
Pseudocodes are designed to be readable by any beginner level programmer.
Elementary explanation without sacrificing depth of coverage or mathematical rigidity.
Vastly used as research reference in algorithms and commonly cited as a reference for algorithms in published papers(10,000+ citations).
bestseller programming book with half a million sold copies during initial years.




2. Competitive Programming 3 by Steven Halim:
This is a hardcore Competitive Programming book specially designed for booming International Olympiad in Informatics (IOI) and  ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC), a must-have for every competitive programmer. From an ordinary coder to one of the world’s finest competitive programmers, mastering the contents of this book is very necessary. It contains a collection of relevant data structures, algorithms, and programming tips written to be more competitive in these competitions. This book is such a treat to those who love problem-solving with programming, and those who want to go for interviews in big IT-companies.

Gives you a strong lower bound of problem-solving paradigm in computer science.
Covers a wide variety of problems, many of them known to the community for featuring popular Online Judges.
Explaining each algorithm with some example problems, leading to deep understanding in a pragmatic approach.
Specially focused on the practice with some sample exercises for each topic for a better grasp.
A masterpiece to guide any passionate algorithmic problem solver.




3. Guide to Competitive Programming by Antti Laaksonen:
This is an easy-to-follow, ideal reference book that presents a comprehensive introduction to modern competitive programming. It mainly focuses to learn algorithms by competitive programming to encourage the design of algorithms that work in a real-world problem. This book also improves the debugging skills of a programmer and influence the thinking required to solve problems competitively. The book contains many tips and tricks which can be very useful for any competitive programmers.

Describes how to write efficient algorithms to process large data sets quickly,
Provides in-depth concepts on data structures of the C++ standard library,
An efficient algorithmic design technique for dynamic programming optimization and graph algorithms,
Easy and nice description of Advanced algorithm design topics like bit-parallelism and amortized analysis,
Specialized for trees, geometric algorithms, and discusses the mathematical topics for competitive programming,
Contains a broad range of topics of various levels of difficulty, this book is suitable for both beginners and more experienced readers.





4.  Programming challenges by Steven S Skiena:
This is a well written competitive programming book for self-study, teaching innovative courses in algorithms and programming, and for international competition. International programming contests are the best way to improve your algorithmic and coding skills and for this reason, this book uses programming competition type problems to motivate the study of algorithms and includes more than 100 programming challenges with the necessary theory and key concepts for approaching them. All the interesting problems in this book are well structured by topics to gain a concrete understanding of both algorithmic techniques and advanced coding topics.

A large no of quality programming problems suitable for self-study
Online judging at www.programming-challenges.com
Suitable to prepare for the major programming contents like ACM ICPC, IOI, and Topcoder Challenges.
Contains quality concepts in brief on key elements like number theory, geometry, dynamic programming and graph algorithms,
Programs are written in popular programming languages like C, C++, and Java.





5. The Algorithm Design Manual by SteveS. Skiena:
It is one of the best-selling classic books which reveals the mystery behind designing algorithms and analyzing their optimized efficiency. It’s not only the primary textbook of choice for algorithm design courses but also the best practical reference guide to algorithms for programmers, researchers, and students which provides straightforward access to combinatorial algorithms technology. This book also provides many short tips and tricks for designing and analyzing computer algorithms with the catalog of algorithmic resources, implementations, and an extensive bibliography.

Online support for lectures with completely updated lecture slides, audio, and video.
Updated links for the very best algorithm implementations available in C++, and Java,
Contains most popular algorithmic problems that arise most often in practice,
Provides unique problems from real-world applications,
Suitable for all levels of readers with complete guidance.


Last Words. The most important thing is to learn the core fundamental concepts and practicing a lot. You can select any one of these books and start learning and start coding. The best thing about these books is that it will keep you motivated during your journey toward a good competitive programmer. So don’t stop keep learning, keep chasing, and most importantly keep practicing.
